Now we're going to discuss metadata.
Something to think about as we
discuss this topic are the legal and
regulatory considerations.
As machine learning becomes increasingly
used to make important business decisions,
healthcare decisions and
financial decisions,
legal liability becomes a factor.
Being able to interpret a model and
being able to trace back the lineage or
provenance of the data that was
used to train the model become
increasingly important
to limiting exposure.
Okay, let's go ahead and get started.
Now let's start exploring
how ML metadata or
MLMD can help you with
tracking artifacts and
pipeline changes during
a production life cycle.
Every run of a production ML
pipeline generates metadata
containing information about
the various pipeline components and
their executions or training runs and
the resulting artifacts.
For example, trained models.
In the event of unexpected
pipeline behavior or errors,
this metadata can be leveraged to
analyze the lineage of pipeline
components and to help you debug issues.
Think of this metadata as the equivalent
of logging in software development.
MLMD helps you understand and
analyze all the interconnected parts of
your ML pipeline,
instead of analyzing them in isolation.
Now consider the two stages in ML
engineering that you've seen so far.
First you've done data validation,
then you've passed the results onto data
transformation or feature engineering.
This is the first part of
any model training process.
But what if you had a centralized
repository where every
time you run a component,
you store the result or the update or
any other output of that
stage into a repository.
So whenever any changes made,
which causes a different result,
you don't need to worry about the progress
you've made so far getting lost.
You can examine your previous results
to try to understand what happened and
make corrections or
take advantage of improvements.
Let's take a closer look.
In addition to the executor where
your code runs, each component
also includes two additional parts,
the driver and publisher.
The executor is where the work
of the component is done and
that's what makes different
components different.
Whatever input is needed for
the executor, is provided by the driver,
which gets it from the metadata store.
Finally, the publisher will
push the results of running
the executor back into the metadata store.
Most of the time, you won't need to
customize the driver or publisher.
Creating custom components is almost
always done by creating a custom executor.
Now, let's look specifically
at ML Metadata or MLMD.
MLMD is a library for
tracking and retrieving metadata
associated with ML developer and
data scientist workflows.
MLMD can be used as an integral
part of an ML pipeline or
it can be used independently.
However, when integrated
with an ML pipeline,
you may not even explicitly
interact with MLMD.
Objects which are stored in MLMD
are referred to as artifacts.
MLMD stores the properties of each
artifact in a relational database and
stores large objects like data sets on
disc or in a file system or block store.
When you're working with ML metadata,
you need to know how data flows between
different successive components.
Each step in this data flow is described
through an entity that you need
to be familiar with.
At the highest level of MLMD,
there are some data entities
that can be considered as units.
First, there are artifacts.
An artifact is an elementary
unit of data that gets fed into
the ML metadata store and
as the data is consumed as input or
generated as output of each component.
Next there are executions.
Each execution is a record of any
component run during the ML pipeline
workflow, along with its
associated runtime parameters.
Any artifact or
execution will be associated
with only one type of component.
Artifacts and
executions can be clustered together for
each type of component separately.
This grouping is referred
to as the context.
A context may hold the metadata
of the projects being run,
experiments being conducted,
details about pipelines, etc.
Each of these units can hold
additional data describing it in more
detail using properties.
Next there are types, previously,
you've seen several types of units that
get stored inside the ML metadata.
Each type includes
the properties of that type.
Lastly, we have relationships.
Relationships store the various
units getting generated or
consumed when interacting
with other units.
For example,
an event is the record of a relationship
between an artifact and an execution.
So, ML metadata stores a wide range
of information about the results of
the components and
execution runs of a pipeline.
It stores artifacts and
it stores the executions of
each component in the pipeline.
It also stores the lineage information for
each artifact that is generated.
All of this information is
represented in metadata objects and
this metadata is stored in
a back end storage solution.
Let's take a look at the architecture
of ML metadata or MLMD.
On the top are the various components
present in any ML pipeline.
All of these components are individually
connected to a centralized
metadata store of ML metadata,
so that each component can
independently access the metadata
at any stage of the pipeline.
An ML pipeline may optionally have
a gooey console that can access the data
from the metadata store directly to
track the progress of each component.
At the heart of the metadata
store is the artifact which is
described by its
corresponding artifact type.
Artifacts become the inputs to any
pipeline components which depend on them.
And the corresponding use of artifacts
by components is recorded in executions.
The input of an artifact into a component
is described by an input event and
the corresponding output of a new artifact
from the component is
described by an output event.
This interaction between artifacts and
executions is represented by
context through the relationships
of attribution and association.
Lastly, all of the data generated
by the metadata store is
stored in various types of back
end storage like sequel light and
my sequel and large objects are stored
in a file system or block store.
Let's review.
You learned a lot about the architecture
and nomenclature of ML metadata or
MLMD and the artifacts and
entities which it contains.
This should give you some idea of how you
can leverage MLMD to track metadata and
the results flowing through your
pipeline to better understand your
training process, both now and in
previous training runs of your pipeline.